COMPLETION_REPORT.md, before:

# AI Engineer Toolkit - Completion Report

## Project Status: 100% Complete

All planned modules, case studies, and notebooks have been implemented following the White-Box approach.

### 1. Modules Implemented (`src/`)
- **Core**: Probability, Optimization, Math Operations (All from scratch).
- **ML**: Classical ML (Linear Regression), Deep Learning (Dense layers, Backprop) - Pure Numpy.
- **LLM**: RAG Pipeline, ReAct Agents, Attention types (Multi-Head, RoPE), Fine-Tuning (LoRA).
- **Production**: Caching (Redis/LRU), API (FastAPI), Deployment scripts.

### 2. Case Studies (`case_studies/`)
- **Legal Document RAG**: Full pipeline with citation extraction and hybrid search.
- **Medical Diagnosis Agent**: Safety-first architecture with PII filtering and validation.

### 3. Notebooks (`notebooks/`)
- Week 1: Mathematical Foundations
- Week 2: Neural Networks from Scratch
- Week 3: Classical ML

### 4. Verification
A verification script is provided at `scripts/verify_toolkit.py`.
Run it to confirm installation:
```bash
python scripts/verify_toolkit.py
```

### 5. Dependencies
The project requires the following packages (see `requirements.txt`):
- `numpy`, `pandas`, `scipy`
- `torch` (for comparison, though src.ml is numpy-based)
- `fastapi`, `uvicorn` (for production API)
- `redis` (optional, for caching)

**Note**: The verification script may report missing dependencies. Install them via:
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### 6. Next Steps
1. Install dependencies.
2. Run `python scripts/verify_toolkit.py`.
3. Start the API: `make run-api`.
4. Explore notebooks: `make jupyter`.

Commit message:

feat: Add extensive curriculum content including new notebooks, documentation guides, and verification files, and update README and completion report.

COMPLETION_REPORT.md, after:

# AI Engineer Toolkit - Completion Report

## Project Status: 100% Complete

All planned modules, case studies, and notebooks have been implemented following the White-Box approach.

### 1. Modules Implemented (`src/`)
- **Core**: Probability, Optimization, Math Operations (All from scratch).
- **ML**: Classical ML (Linear Regression), Deep Learning (Dense layers, Backprop) - Pure Numpy.
- **LLM**: RAG Pipeline, ReAct Agents, Attention types (Multi-Head, RoPE), Fine-Tuning (LoRA).
- **Production**: Caching (Redis/LRU), API (FastAPI), Deployment scripts.

### 2. Case Studies (`case_studies/`)
- **Legal Document RAG**: Full pipeline with citation extraction and hybrid search.
- **Medical Diagnosis Agent**: Safety-first architecture with PII filtering and validation.

### 3. Notebooks (`notebooks/`)
- Weeks 1-15: Fully populated with foundational content and demonstration notebooks leveraging the `src` modules.
- Practical demonstrations for Production, LLMs, and System Design included.

### 4. Verification
A verification script is provided at `scripts/verify_toolkit.py`.
Run it to confirm installation:
```bash
python scripts/verify_toolkit.py
```

### 5. Dependencies
The project requires the following packages (see `requirements.txt`):
- `numpy`, `pandas`, `scipy`
- `torch` (for comparison, though src.ml is numpy-based)
- `fastapi`, `uvicorn` (for production API)
- `redis` (optional, for caching)

**Note**: The verification script may report missing dependencies. Install them via:
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### 6. Next Steps
1. Install dependencies.
2. Run `python scripts/verify_toolkit.py`.
3. Start the API: `make run-api`.
4. Explore notebooks: `make jupyter`.
