sprints/rag_engine/rag-engine-mini/README.md, before:

# RAG Engine Mini

**Production-Ready, Fully-Documented, Enterprise-Grade AI Engineering Platform**

## Features

### Core Capabilities

- ✅ **Hybrid Search**: Full-text search + Vector search with RRF fusion
- ✅ **Advanced RAG**: Reranking, query expansion, semantic routing, privacy guard
- ✅ **Multi-tenant**: Complete tenant isolation at all layers
- ✅ **Document Management**: Upload, search, delete, update, merge, bulk operations, export
- ✅ **Chat System**: Sessions, history, title generation, session summarization
- ✅ **Security**: Argon2 hashing, JWT auth, API keys, rate limiting, input sanitization
- ✅ **Observability**: Metrics, logs, traces, alerting, error tracking
- ✅ **CI/CD**: Automated testing, Docker builds, deployments
- ✅ **Scalability**: Horizontal scaling, caching, connection pooling
- ✅ **Webhooks**: Event-driven architecture with HMAC verification
- ✅ **GraphQL**: Flexible queries, mutations, subscriptions
- ✅ **A/B Testing**: Experiment management and analysis
- ✅ **i18n**: Bilingual support (Arabic, English)
- ✅ **Export**: PDF, Markdown, CSV, JSON export formats
- ✅ **Caching**: Multi-layer strategy (In-memory, Redis, Database)

## Quick Start

### Installation

```bash
# Clone repository
git clone https://github.com/your-org/rag-engine-mini.git
cd rag-engine-mini

# Install dependencies
make install

# Run database migrations
python -m alembic upgrade head

# Seed database with test data
python scripts/seed_sample_data.py

# Start API server
make run
```

### API Usage

```bash
# Register user
curl -X POST http://localhost:8000/api/v1/auth/register \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"email":"user@example.com","password":"SecurePass123!"}'

# Login and get token
TOKEN=$(curl -X POST http://localhost:8000/api/v1/auth/login \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"email":"user@example.com","password":"SecurePass123!"}' | \
  jq -r '.access_token')

# Ask a question
curl -X POST http://localhost:8000/api/v1/ask \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer $TOKEN" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"question":"What is RAG?","k":5}'
```

### SDK Usage

**Python SDK:**
```python
from rag_engine import RAGClient

client = RAGClient(api_key="sk_...")
answer = client.ask("What is RAG?", k=5)
print(answer.text)
```

**JavaScript SDK:**
```javascript
import { RAGClient } from "@rag-engine/sdk";

const client = new RAGClient({ apiKey: "sk_..." });
const answer = await client.ask("What is RAG?", { k: 5 });
console.log(answer.text);
```

## Documentation

### Learning Materials

- **Security** (`docs/learning/security/`)
  - 01-password-hashing.md (850 lines)
  - 02-jwt-tokens.md (1000 lines)
  - 03-user-registration.md (900 lines)

- **API** (`docs/learning/api/`)
  - 01-graphql-ab-testing-i18n.md (800 lines)

- **Database** (`docs/learning/database/`)
  - 01-seeding-strategies.md (700 lines)

- **Observability** (`docs/learning/observability/`)
  - 01-observability-guide.md (900 lines)
  - 02-tracing-guide.md (850 lines)
  - 03-monitoring-guide.md (800 lines)

- **CI/CD** (`docs/learning/cicd/`)
  - 01-ci-cd-guide.md (850 lines)

- **Testing** (`docs/learning/testing/`)
  - 01-testing-guide.md (900 lines)

- **Infrastructure** (`docs/learning/infrastructure/`)
  - 01-infrastructure-guide.md (700 lines)
  - 02-caching-strategies.md (900 lines)

- **Deployment** (`docs/learning/deployment/`)
  - 01-deployment-guide.md (800 lines)

### Notebooks

- **Security** (`notebooks/learning/01-security/`)
  - password-hashing-basics.ipynb
  - jwt-explained.ipynb

- **Database** (`notebooks/learning/03-database/`)
  - seeding-basics.ipynb

- **Observability** (`notebooks/learning/04-observability/`)
  - metrics-basics.ipynb
  - tracing-basics.ipynb

- **CI/CD** (`notebooks/learning/05-cicd/`)
  - ci-cd-basics.ipynb

## Architecture

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│ Client (Web/Mobile/SDK)                                  │
└──────────────────────────┬────────────────────────────────────┘
                       │
                       ▼
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│ FastAPI Gateway                                             │
│  - Rate limiting (Redis)                                    │
│  - Input sanitization                                         │
│  - JWT authentication                                         │
│  - Security headers                                           │
└──────────────────────────┬────────────────────────────────────┘
                       │
          ┌────────────┴────────────┬────────────────┐
          ▼                         ▼               ▼
┌─────────────────┐  ┌──────────────┐  ┌──────────────┐
│ PostgreSQL DB   │  │   Redis      │  │   Qdrant     │
│  - Users        │  │  - Cache     │  │  - Vectors    │
│  - Documents    │  │  - Rate limit│  │  │  - Embeddings  │
│  - Chunks       │  │              │  │               │
└─────────────────┘  └──────────────┘  └──────────────┘
          │                          │
          └──────────┬───────────────┘
                     ▼
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│ RAG Pipeline Services                                        │
│  - Embedding Service                                       │
│  - Reranking Service                                       │
│  - Query Expansion Service                                    │
│  - Chat Enhancement Service                                   │
│  - Search Enhancement Service                                  │
│  - Document Management Service                                 │
│  - Webhooks Service                                        │
└──────────────────────────┬────────────────────────────────────┘
                       │
          ┌────────────┴────────────┐
          ▼                         ▼
┌─────────────────┐  ┌──────────────┐
│   OpenAI LLM   │  │  Cross-Encoder│
└─────────────────┘  └──────────────┘
          │
          └──────────┬───────────────┘
                     ▼
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│ Observability Stack                                        │
│  - Prometheus (Metrics)                                    │
│  - Grafana (Dashboards)                                    │
│  - Loki (Logs)                                          │
│  - Jaeger (Traces)                                       │
│  - Sentry (Errors)                                        │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## Project Structure

```
rag-engine-mini/
├── src/                          # Source code (35+ files)
│   ├── adapters/                # External integrations
│   ├── api/                    # FastAPI application
│   ├── application/             # Business logic (19 files)
│   └── core/                 # Shared utilities
├── tests/                       # Test suite (4 directories)
│   ├── unit/              # Unit tests
│   ├── integration/       # Integration tests
│   ├── performance/       # Performance tests
│   └── security/          # Security tests
├── scripts/                     # Utility scripts (9 files)
├── config/                      # Configuration (4 directories)
│   ├── prometheus/        # Alerts
│   ├── grafana/           # Dashboards
│   ├── kubernetes/         # K8s manifests
│   └── terraform/         # Terraform IaC
├── docs/                        # Documentation (9 categories)
│   └── learning/         # Educational content (60+ MD files)
├── notebooks/                  # Jupyter notebooks (4 categories)
├── sdk/                        # Client SDKs (2 languages)
│   ├── python/            # Python SDK
│   └── javascript/        # JavaScript SDK
├── Dockerfile                  # Multi-stage Dockerfile
├── .pre-commit-config.yaml   # Pre-commit hooks
├── .github/workflows/         # GitHub Actions
├── README.md                  # Project documentation
├── EXECUTION_SUMMARY.md      # Project roadmap
└── EXECUTION_COMPLETE.md      # Project completion summary
```

## Development

### Available Commands

```bash
# Install dependencies
make install

# Run development server
make run

# Run tests
make test

# Run tests with coverage
make test-cov

# Format code
make format

# Lint code
make lint

# Type check
make typecheck

# Build Docker image
make docker-build

# Run Docker container
make docker-run

# Build documentation
make docs
```

### Environment Variables

```bash
# Required
DATABASE_URL=postgresql://user:pass@host:5432/dbname
REDIS_URL=redis://host:6379/0
QDRANT_HOST=localhost
QDRANT_PORT=6333
OPENAI_API_KEY=sk-...
JWT_SECRET=your-jwt-secret-here

# Optional
ENVIRONMENT=development  # development, testing, staging, production
SENTRY_DSN=https://...
SENTRY_TRACES_SAMPLE_RATE=0.1
LOG_LEVEL=INFO
SENTRY_TRACES_SAMPLE_RATE=0.1
```

## Testing

```bash
# Run all tests
pytest

# Run unit tests only
pytest tests/unit/

# Run integration tests only
pytest tests/integration/ -m integration

# Run with coverage
pytest --cov=src --cov-report=html

# Run specific test file
pytest tests/unit/test_core.py::TestMetrics::test_api_request_count
```

## Deployment

### Quick Deploy (Docker)

```bash
# Build image
docker build -t rag-engine .

# Run container
docker run -p 8000:8000 \
  -e DATABASE_URL=postgresql://... \
  -e REDIS_URL=redis://... \
  rag-engine
```

### Deploy to Kubernetes

```bash
# Apply all manifests
kubectl apply -f config/kubernetes/

# Check status
kubectl get pods -n rag-engine

# View logs
kubectl logs -f deployment/rag-engine -n rag-engine
```

## Monitoring

### Access Dashboards

- **Grafana Dashboard**: http://your-host:3000
  - Username: admin
  - Password: admin
  - Dashboard: RAG Engine

- **Prometheus**: http://your-host:9090
  - Metrics: /metrics
  - Alerts: Configured in config/prometheus/alerts.yml

- **Jaeger Tracing**: http://your-host:16686
  - View distributed traces
  - Analyze pipeline performance

- **Sentry**: https://sentry.io (configured)
  - View error reports
  - Track performance issues

### Key Metrics

- **Request Rate**: Requests/minute
- **Latency**: P95 < 2s, P99 < 5s
- **Error Rate**: < 1%
- **Cache Hit Rate**: > 50%
- **Token Usage**: Monitor LLM costs
- **Retrieval Score**: P50 > 0.7

## Contributing

1. Fork repository
2. Create a feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`)
3. Make your changes
4. Run tests (`make test`)
5. Commit changes (`git commit -am -m 'feat: ...'`)
6. Push to branch (`git push origin feature/amazing-feature`)
7. Open a Pull Request

## License

MIT License - see LICENSE file for details

## Acknowledgments

- **FastAPI**: Web framework
- **SQLAlchemy**: ORM
- **OpenTelemetry**: Observability standard
- **Prometheus**: Metrics
- **Grafana**: Visualization
- **Pytest**: Testing framework
- **Strawberry**: GraphQL library
- **Redis**: Caching
- **Qdrant**: Vector database
- **ReportLab**: PDF generation
- **Jinja2**: Template engine
- **Jinja2**: Template engine

---

**Status**: 🎉 **PRODUCTION-READY, FULLY-DOCUMENTED, ENTERPRISE-GRADE AI ENGINEERING PLATFORM**

**Final Deliverables:**
- ✅ 完整的RAG引擎实现
- ✅ 企业级可观测性
- ✅ 生产就绪CI/CD
- ✅ 全面的教育文档
- ✅ 多平台SDK支持
- ✅ 可扩展架构
- ✅ 完整的功能特性

**Total Project Execution:**
- **Files Created**: 200+
- **Lines of Code**: 30,000+
- **Tests Added**: 65+ files
- **Documentation**: 60+ MD files (1000+ pages)
- **Jupyter Notebooks**: 20+ notebooks
- **Git Commits**: 18 phase-grouped commits
- **Development Time**: ~8 hours
- **Language Support**: English + Arabic

**Phase Completion:** ✅ ALL 64 STEPS COMPLETE

Commit message:

feat: add cloud filestore + celery learning layer
Add deep-dive MD guide and hands-on notebook for cloud filestore, streaming uploads, and Celery tasks.

Document .env configuration for storage backends and add async bulk upload endpoint for queue-based ingestion.

Include worker monitoring hooks and Prometheus task metrics to support observability.

sprints/rag_engine/rag-engine-mini/README.md, after:

# RAG Engine Mini

**Production-Ready, Fully-Documented, Enterprise-Grade AI Engineering Platform**

## Features

### Core Capabilities

- ✅ **Hybrid Search**: Full-text search + Vector search with RRF fusion
- ✅ **Advanced RAG**: Reranking, query expansion, semantic routing, privacy guard
- ✅ **Multi-tenant**: Complete tenant isolation at all layers
- ✅ **Document Management**: Upload, search, delete, update, merge, bulk operations, export
- ✅ **Chat System**: Sessions, history, title generation, session summarization
- ✅ **Security**: Argon2 hashing, JWT auth, API keys, rate limiting, input sanitization
- ✅ **Observability**: Metrics, logs, traces, alerting, error tracking
- ✅ **CI/CD**: Automated testing, Docker builds, deployments
- ✅ **Scalability**: Horizontal scaling, caching, connection pooling
- ✅ **Webhooks**: Event-driven architecture with HMAC verification
- ✅ **GraphQL**: Flexible queries, mutations, subscriptions
- ✅ **A/B Testing**: Experiment management and analysis
- ✅ **i18n**: Bilingual support (Arabic, English)
- ✅ **Export**: PDF, Markdown, CSV, JSON export formats
- ✅ **Caching**: Multi-layer strategy (In-memory, Redis, Database)

## Quick Start

### Installation

```bash
# Clone repository
git clone https://github.com/your-org/rag-engine-mini.git
cd rag-engine-mini

# Install dependencies
make install

# Run database migrations
python -m alembic upgrade head

# Seed database with test data
python scripts/seed_sample_data.py

# Start API server
make run
```

### Configuration

Copy the example config and adjust for your environment:

```bash
cp .env.example .env
```

Key settings for file storage and background tasks:

- `FILESTORE_BACKEND`: `local` | `s3` | `gcs` | `azure`
- `S3_*`, `GCS_*`, `AZURE_*`: Cloud storage credentials and buckets/containers
- `CELERY_BROKER_URL`, `CELERY_RESULT_BACKEND`: Redis endpoints for Celery
- `UPLOAD_DIR`, `MAX_UPLOAD_MB`, `ALLOWED_EXTENSIONS`: Upload limits and local path

### API Usage

```bash
# Register user
curl -X POST http://localhost:8000/api/v1/auth/register \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"email":"user@example.com","password":"SecurePass123!"}'

# Login and get token
TOKEN=$(curl -X POST http://localhost:8000/api/v1/auth/login \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"email":"user@example.com","password":"SecurePass123!"}' | \
  jq -r '.access_token')

# Ask a question
curl -X POST http://localhost:8000/api/v1/ask \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer $TOKEN" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"question":"What is RAG?","k":5}'
```

### SDK Usage

**Python SDK:**
```python
from rag_engine import RAGClient

client = RAGClient(api_key="sk_...")
answer = client.ask("What is RAG?", k=5)
print(answer.text)
```

**JavaScript SDK:**
```javascript
import { RAGClient } from "@rag-engine/sdk";

const client = new RAGClient({ apiKey: "sk_..." });
const answer = await client.ask("What is RAG?", { k: 5 });
console.log(answer.text);
```

## Documentation

### Learning Materials

- **Security** (`docs/learning/security/`)
  - 01-password-hashing.md (850 lines)
  - 02-jwt-tokens.md (1000 lines)
  - 03-user-registration.md (900 lines)

- **API** (`docs/learning/api/`)
  - 01-graphql-ab-testing-i18n.md (800 lines)

- **Database** (`docs/learning/database/`)
  - 01-seeding-strategies.md (700 lines)

- **Observability** (`docs/learning/observability/`)
  - 01-observability-guide.md (900 lines)
  - 02-tracing-guide.md (850 lines)
  - 03-monitoring-guide.md (800 lines)

- **CI/CD** (`docs/learning/cicd/`)
  - 01-ci-cd-guide.md (850 lines)

- **Testing** (`docs/learning/testing/`)
  - 01-testing-guide.md (900 lines)

- **Infrastructure** (`docs/learning/infrastructure/`)
  - 01-infrastructure-guide.md (700 lines)
  - 02-caching-strategies.md (900 lines)

- **Deployment** (`docs/learning/deployment/`)
  - 01-deployment-guide.md (800 lines)

### Notebooks

- **Security** (`notebooks/learning/01-security/`)
  - password-hashing-basics.ipynb
  - jwt-explained.ipynb

- **Database** (`notebooks/learning/03-database/`)
  - seeding-basics.ipynb

- **Observability** (`notebooks/learning/04-observability/`)
  - metrics-basics.ipynb
  - tracing-basics.ipynb

- **CI/CD** (`notebooks/learning/05-cicd/`)
  - ci-cd-basics.ipynb

## Architecture

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│ Client (Web/Mobile/SDK)                                  │
└──────────────────────────┬────────────────────────────────────┘
                       │
                       ▼
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│ FastAPI Gateway                                             │
│  - Rate limiting (Redis)                                    │
│  - Input sanitization                                         │
│  - JWT authentication                                         │
│  - Security headers                                           │
└──────────────────────────┬────────────────────────────────────┘
                       │
          ┌────────────┴────────────┬────────────────┐
          ▼                         ▼               ▼
┌─────────────────┐  ┌──────────────┐  ┌──────────────┐
│ PostgreSQL DB   │  │   Redis      │  │   Qdrant     │
│  - Users        │  │  - Cache     │  │  - Vectors    │
│  - Documents    │  │  - Rate limit│  │  │  - Embeddings  │
│  - Chunks       │  │              │  │               │
└─────────────────┘  └──────────────┘  └──────────────┘
          │                          │
          └──────────┬───────────────┘
                     ▼
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│ RAG Pipeline Services                                        │
│  - Embedding Service                                       │
│  - Reranking Service                                       │
│  - Query Expansion Service                                    │
│  - Chat Enhancement Service                                   │
│  - Search Enhancement Service                                  │
│  - Document Management Service                                 │
│  - Webhooks Service                                        │
└──────────────────────────┬────────────────────────────────────┘
                       │
          ┌────────────┴────────────┐
          ▼                         ▼
┌─────────────────┐  ┌──────────────┐
│   OpenAI LLM   │  │  Cross-Encoder│
└─────────────────┘  └──────────────┘
          │
          └──────────┬───────────────┘
                     ▼
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│ Observability Stack                                        │
│  - Prometheus (Metrics)                                    │
│  - Grafana (Dashboards)                                    │
│  - Loki (Logs)                                          │
│  - Jaeger (Traces)                                       │
│  - Sentry (Errors)                                        │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## Project Structure

```
rag-engine-mini/
├── src/                          # Source code (35+ files)
│   ├── adapters/                # External integrations
│   ├── api/                    # FastAPI application
│   ├── application/             # Business logic (19 files)
│   └── core/                 # Shared utilities
├── tests/                       # Test suite (4 directories)
│   ├── unit/              # Unit tests
│   ├── integration/       # Integration tests
│   ├── performance/       # Performance tests
│   └── security/          # Security tests
├── scripts/                     # Utility scripts (9 files)
├── config/                      # Configuration (4 directories)
│   ├── prometheus/        # Alerts
│   ├── grafana/           # Dashboards
│   ├── kubernetes/         # K8s manifests
│   └── terraform/         # Terraform IaC
├── docs/                        # Documentation (9 categories)
│   └── learning/         # Educational content (60+ MD files)
├── notebooks/                  # Jupyter notebooks (4 categories)
├── sdk/                        # Client SDKs (2 languages)
│   ├── python/            # Python SDK
│   └── javascript/        # JavaScript SDK
├── Dockerfile                  # Multi-stage Dockerfile
├── .pre-commit-config.yaml   # Pre-commit hooks
├── .github/workflows/         # GitHub Actions
├── README.md                  # Project documentation
├── EXECUTION_SUMMARY.md      # Project roadmap
└── EXECUTION_COMPLETE.md      # Project completion summary
```

## Development

### Available Commands

```bash
# Install dependencies
make install

# Run development server
make run

# Run tests
make test

# Run tests with coverage
make test-cov

# Format code
make format

# Lint code
make lint

# Type check
make typecheck

# Build Docker image
make docker-build

# Run Docker container
make docker-run

# Build documentation
make docs
```

### Environment Variables

```bash
# Required
DATABASE_URL=postgresql://user:pass@host:5432/dbname
REDIS_URL=redis://host:6379/0
QDRANT_HOST=localhost
QDRANT_PORT=6333
OPENAI_API_KEY=sk-...
JWT_SECRET=your-jwt-secret-here

# Optional
ENVIRONMENT=development  # development, testing, staging, production
SENTRY_DSN=https://...
SENTRY_TRACES_SAMPLE_RATE=0.1
LOG_LEVEL=INFO
SENTRY_TRACES_SAMPLE_RATE=0.1
```

## Testing

```bash
# Run all tests
pytest

# Run unit tests only
pytest tests/unit/

# Run integration tests only
pytest tests/integration/ -m integration

# Run with coverage
pytest --cov=src --cov-report=html

# Run specific test file
pytest tests/unit/test_core.py::TestMetrics::test_api_request_count
```

## Deployment

### Quick Deploy (Docker)

```bash
# Build image
docker build -t rag-engine .

# Run container
docker run -p 8000:8000 \
  -e DATABASE_URL=postgresql://... \
  -e REDIS_URL=redis://... \
  rag-engine
```

### Deploy to Kubernetes

```bash
# Apply all manifests
kubectl apply -f config/kubernetes/

# Check status
kubectl get pods -n rag-engine

# View logs
kubectl logs -f deployment/rag-engine -n rag-engine
```

## Monitoring

### Access Dashboards

- **Grafana Dashboard**: http://your-host:3000
  - Username: admin
  - Password: admin
  - Dashboard: RAG Engine

- **Prometheus**: http://your-host:9090
  - Metrics: /metrics
  - Alerts: Configured in config/prometheus/alerts.yml

- **Jaeger Tracing**: http://your-host:16686
  - View distributed traces
  - Analyze pipeline performance

- **Sentry**: https://sentry.io (configured)
  - View error reports
  - Track performance issues

### Key Metrics

- **Request Rate**: Requests/minute
- **Latency**: P95 < 2s, P99 < 5s
- **Error Rate**: < 1%
- **Cache Hit Rate**: > 50%
- **Token Usage**: Monitor LLM costs
- **Retrieval Score**: P50 > 0.7

## Contributing

1. Fork repository
2. Create a feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`)
3. Make your changes
4. Run tests (`make test`)
5. Commit changes (`git commit -am -m 'feat: ...'`)
6. Push to branch (`git push origin feature/amazing-feature`)
7. Open a Pull Request

## License

MIT License - see LICENSE file for details

## Acknowledgments

- **FastAPI**: Web framework
- **SQLAlchemy**: ORM
- **OpenTelemetry**: Observability standard
- **Prometheus**: Metrics
- **Grafana**: Visualization
- **Pytest**: Testing framework
- **Strawberry**: GraphQL library
- **Redis**: Caching
- **Qdrant**: Vector database
- **ReportLab**: PDF generation
- **Jinja2**: Template engine
- **Jinja2**: Template engine

---

**Status**: 🎉 **PRODUCTION-READY, FULLY-DOCUMENTED, ENTERPRISE-GRADE AI ENGINEERING PLATFORM**

**Final Deliverables:**
- ✅ 完整的RAG引擎实现
- ✅ 企业级可观测性
- ✅ 生产就绪CI/CD
- ✅ 全面的教育文档
- ✅ 多平台SDK支持
- ✅ 可扩展架构
- ✅ 完整的功能特性

**Total Project Execution:**
- **Files Created**: 200+
- **Lines of Code**: 30,000+
- **Tests Added**: 65+ files
- **Documentation**: 60+ MD files (1000+ pages)
- **Jupyter Notebooks**: 20+ notebooks
- **Git Commits**: 18 phase-grouped commits
- **Development Time**: ~8 hours
- **Language Support**: English + Arabic

**Phase Completion:** ✅ ALL 64 STEPS COMPLETE
